g3doc/plan_b_removal.md, before:

<!-- go/cmark -->
<!--* freshness: {owner: 'hta' reviewed: '2026-01-17'} *-->

# Plan B Deprecation and Removal

This document describes the tooling and process for deprecating and eventually removing Plan B SDP semantics from the WebRTC codebase.

## Build Configuration

To support a gradual deprecation, a new GN argument and C++ macro have been introduced.

### GN Argument: `deprecate_plan_b`

Defined in `webrtc.gni`, this argument controls whether Plan B specific APIs are marked as deprecated at compile time.

*   **`false` (default):** Plan B APIs are available without warnings.
*   **`true`:** Plan B APIs are annotated with `[[deprecated]]`. In WebRTC's default build configuration (which treats warnings as errors), this will cause compilation to fail if any Plan B APIs are used.

To enable this in your local build, add the following to your `args.gn`:
```gn
deprecate_plan_b = true
```

### C++ Macro: `PLAN_B_ONLY`

Defined in `rtc_base/system/plan_b_only.h`, this macro should be used to annotate functions, classes, or variables that are only needed for Plan B semantics.

```cpp
#include "rtc_base/system/plan_b_only.h"

PLAN_B_ONLY void MyPlanBSpecificFunction();
```

- When `deprecate_plan_b` is `true`, `PLAN_B_ONLY` expands to `[[deprecated]]`.
- When `deprecate_plan_b` is `false`, `PLAN_B_ONLY` expands to an empty string.

## Usage Guidelines

### Annotating New Plan B Code
Avoid adding new Plan B code. If it is absolutely necessary, ensure it is annotated with the `PLAN_B_ONLY` macro.

### Identifying Plan B Dependencies
By setting `deprecate_plan_b = true`, developers can identify all call sites that still rely on Plan B. This is the primary method for auditing the progress of the migration to Unified Plan.

### Transitioning to Unified Plan
Functions that are compatible with both Plan B and Unified Plan should **not** be annotated. Only those that are functionally incorrect or redundant under Unified Plan (often guarded by `RTC_DCHECK(!IsUnifiedPlan())`) should be marked.

Commit message:

Allow compilation with Plan B deprecation enabled
This change introduces mechanisms to allow the codebase to compile
even when deprecate_plan_b = true is set in GN args:

1.  A new GN config suppress_plan_b_deprecation is added to suppress
    deprecated-declarations warnings.
2.  The rtc_test template is updated to automatically apply this
    suppression, allowing unit tests to continue calling Plan B APIs.
3.  RTC_ALLOW_PLAN_B_DEPRECATION_BEGIN/END macros are added to
    plan_b_only.h to locally suppress warnings in production glue code.
4.  Existing call sites in PeerConnection and SdpOfferAnswerHandler
    are wrapped with these macros.
5.  Updated g3doc/plan_b_removal.md with the new macros and usage.

Bug: webrtc:467984837
Change-Id: I42bc995b7825e0ae96db8919dd31d2c44551f430
Reviewed-on: https://webrtc-review.googlesource.com/c/src/+/442362
Commit-Queue: Harald Alvestrand <hta@webrtc.org>
Reviewed-by: Tomas Gunnarsson <tommi@webrtc.org>
Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/main@{#46682}

g3doc/plan_b_removal.md, after:

<!-- go/cmark -->
<!--* freshness: {owner: 'hta' reviewed: '2026-01-17'} *-->

# Plan B Deprecation and Removal

This document describes the tooling and process for deprecating and eventually removing Plan B SDP semantics from the WebRTC codebase.

## Build Configuration

To support a gradual deprecation, a new GN argument and C++ macro have been introduced.

### GN Argument: `deprecate_plan_b`

Defined in `webrtc.gni`, this argument controls whether Plan B specific APIs are marked as deprecated at compile time.

*   **`false` (default):** Plan B APIs are available without warnings.
*   **`true`:** Plan B APIs are annotated with `[[deprecated]]`. In WebRTC's default build configuration (which treats warnings as errors), this will cause compilation to fail if any Plan B APIs are used.

To enable this in your local build, add the following to your `args.gn`:
```gn
deprecate_plan_b = true
```

### C++ Macro: `PLAN_B_ONLY`

Defined in `rtc_base/system/plan_b_only.h`, this macro should be used to annotate functions, classes, or variables that are only needed for Plan B semantics.

```cpp
#include "rtc_base/system/plan_b_only.h"

PLAN_B_ONLY void MyPlanBSpecificFunction();
```

- When `deprecate_plan_b` is `true`, `PLAN_B_ONLY` expands to `[[deprecated]]`.
- When `deprecate_plan_b` is `false`, `PLAN_B_ONLY` expands to an empty string.

### Suppression Macros

To allow existing Plan B code to compile when `deprecate_plan_b = true`, the following macros are provided in `rtc_base/system/plan_b_only.h`:

- `RTC_ALLOW_PLAN_B_DEPRECATION_BEGIN()`
- `RTC_ALLOW_PLAN_B_DEPRECATION_END()`

These macros use compiler pragmas to locally disable deprecation warnings.

## Usage Guidelines

### Annotating New Plan B Code
Avoid adding new Plan B code. If it is absolutely necessary, ensure it is annotated with the `PLAN_B_ONLY` macro.

### Identifying Plan B Dependencies
By setting `deprecate_plan_b = true`, developers can identify all call sites that still rely on Plan B. This is the primary method for auditing the progress of the migration to Unified Plan.

### Suppressing Deprecation Warnings in Legacy Code
Existing Plan B call sites in "glue code" (e.g., `PeerConnection` delegation logic) should be wrapped with the suppression macros to allow the build to pass.

```cpp
RTC_ALLOW_PLAN_B_DEPRECATION_BEGIN();
sdp_handler_->RemoveStream(local_stream);
RTC_ALLOW_PLAN_B_DEPRECATION_END();
```

This ensures that the build only fails on *new*, unwrapped Plan B usage, while clearly marking legacy code that requires migration.

### Transitioning to Unified Plan
Functions that are compatible with both Plan B and Unified Plan should **not** be annotated. Only those that are functionally incorrect or redundant under Unified Plan (often guarded by `RTC_DCHECK(!IsUnifiedPlan())`) should be marked.
